[docs] TLS routing behind l7 load balancer preview (#25424)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/architecture/tls-routing.mdx

  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="13.0"
>

>   TLS routing behind layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) load balancers and reverse proxies
>   support is available in Preview starting from Teleport `13.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for TLS Routing behind layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) load balancers and reverse proxies is available in Preview starting from Teleport `13.0`.
```
Suggesting for clarity (assuming this is accurate)

server.

As such, it is not possible to request a custom ALPN protocol using `kubectl`.
Instead, Teleport leverages SNI and sets a `ServerName` prefixed with
`kube-teleport-proxy-alpn.` when generating a kubeconfig file during `tsh kube

> login`:

Reviewer 2: I think that `kube-teleport-proxy-alpn` applies only to the Teleport Proxy behind L7 ALB and in case of normal TLS Routing flow we are still using kube. prefix

Author: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/6875666526fe275f65dcc898a91f959e1ccc2139/lib/client/api.go#L880-L905

I think `kube-teleport-proxy-alpn.` is the default regardless of this ALB feature. `kube.` suppose to be removed in 13 or 14?
https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/6875666526fe275f65dcc898a91f959e1ccc2139/api/constants/constants.go#L316-L322

Reviewer 2: Then it makes sense 

> I think kube-teleport-proxy-alpn. is the default regardless of this ALB feature. kube. suppose to be removed in 13 or 14?

yes. The support for the `kube` prefix  should be removed in Teleport v14

The `tsh db connect` command executes an appropriate database client for the
database you're connecting to.

In TLS routing mode, `tsh` starts a local proxy which database client

> connection is tunneled through. The local proxy uses ALPN values like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connections are tunneled through. The local proxy uses ALPN values like
```

ALPN/SNI negotiation. These web connections use standard `http1.1` and `h2`
protocols for ALPN.

Application access for TCP applications connects through a local proxy by `tsh
proxy app` where the local proxy forwards the traffic to Teleport Proxy service

> using the `teleport-tcp` ALPN protocol.

Reviewer 2: Same here. I think that this the tsh proxy app is mostly useful in case of L7 LB flow but in default TLS Routing flow the `tsh
proxy app` is not needed.

Author: For TCP app, i believe we only suggest using a local proxy:
https://goteleport.com/docs/application-access/guides/tcp/#step-44-connect

## Working with layer 7 load balancers or reverse proxies (Preview)

Starting from version `13.0`, TLS routing can now be enabled allowing the
Teleport proxy to serve a single port behind a layer 7 load balancer or reverse
proxy.

![Layer 7 load balancer setup](../../img/architecture/tls-routing-alb.svg)

It is expected that the layer 7 load balancer or reverse proxy will terminate
TLS with a public certificate, such as using ACM for AWS ALB. This means that
the Proxy service does not require a Web TLS certificate using `http_keypair`
or `acme`.

Teleport clients automatically detect whether Teleport proxy behind a layer 7

> load balancer or a reverse proxy. In such cases, the client initiates a
> connection upgrade similar to "WebSocket" to bypass the load balancer and then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
load balancer or a reverse proxy. In such cases, the client initiates a
HTTP Connection Upgrade to bypass the load balancer and then
```
Also  "bypass"  in this context might be misunderstand we don't bypass the load balance per-se. 
Maybe "to forward TLS handshake to the Teleport Proxy" ?

request through the upgraded connection.

![Connection upgrade](../../img/architecture/tls-routing-connection-upgrade.svg)

Non-Teleport clients require local proxies that can perform the connection
upgrade. For example, the `tsh proxy kube` command creates a local proxy and an

> ephemeral kubeconfig for Kubernetes clients like `kubectl` to connect to.

Reviewer 2: Can we describe UX per protocol for the tsh flow with Teleport Proxy behind L7 ALB ?

Author: Will do. I couldn't find other places to insert UX for this feature. I'll try my best to describe in "how it works" way for each protocol here since this is in architecture.  Or please let me know if you have any ideas for better places to add section for UX. Thanks!

Author: Added some sub-sections here. Please let me know how it looks. Thanks!

ALPN/SNI negotiation. These web connections use standard `http1.1` and `h2`
protocols for ALPN.

## Working with layer 7 load balancers or reverse proxies (Preview)

Starting from version `13.0`, TLS routing can now be enabled allowing the

> Teleport proxy to serve a single port behind a layer 7 load balancer or reverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport Proxy Service to serve a single port behind a layer 7 load balancer or reverse
```

proxy.

![Layer 7 load balancer setup](../../img/architecture/tls-routing-alb.svg)

It is expected that the layer 7 load balancer or reverse proxy will terminate
TLS with a public certificate, such as using ACM for AWS ALB. This means that

> the Proxy service does not require a Web TLS certificate using `http_keypair`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Proxy Service does not require a Web TLS certificate using `http_keypair`
```

or `acme`.

> Teleport clients automatically detect whether Teleport proxy behind a layer 7
> load balancer or a reverse proxy. In such cases, the client initiates a
> connection upgrade similar to "WebSocket" and then sends the TLS routing
> request through the upgraded connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport clients automatically detect whether the Teleport Proxy Service is behind a layer 7
load balancer or a reverse proxy. In such cases, the client initiates a
connection upgrade similar to "WebSocket" and then sends the TLS routing
request through the upgraded connection.
```

![Connection upgrade](../../img/architecture/tls-routing-connection-upgrade.svg)

Non-Teleport clients should require local proxies that can perform the
special connection upgrades.

Let's take a closer look at how each protocol functions in this configuration.

### SSH

> When transporting SSH protocol over TLS routing, `tsh` make connection upgrades

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When transporting the SSH protocol over TLS routing, `tsh` make connection upgrades
```

seamlessly. This is applicable to `tsh ssh/scp` commands, as well as `tsh proxy
ssh` when connected via `ProxyCommand` using OpenSSH clients.

### Kubernetes

The `tsh proxy kube` command creates a local proxy and an ephemeral kubeconfig

> for Kubernetes clients like `kubectl` to connect to. The local proxy generates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Kubernetes clients like `kubectl`. The local proxy generates
```
Since clients don't connect to a kubeconfig

a self-signed certificate to secure local communications with the Kubernetes
clients.

> When forwarding the requests to the Proxy service, the local proxy performs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When forwarding the requests to the Proxy Service, the local proxy performs
```

necessary connection upgrades and sets the required SNI for the TLS handshake.

### Databases

In TLS routing mode, `tsh db connect` starts a local proxy which database
client connection is tunneled through. The local proxy initiates a connection

> to the Proxy service with the connection upgrade then uses database specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the Proxy Service with the connection upgrade then uses database specific
```

ALPN values for the TLS handshake.

Similarly, native and GUI clients can connect through `tsh proxy db` which
starts a local proxy that handles the connection upgrades.

> ### Web UI and Desktops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Web UI and desktops
```
Using sentence case for headings

> The Teleport web UI, along with all its features such as Desktops and AWS
> Console, is fully functional with standard browsers, without any special
> ALPN/SNI values or special connection upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teleport Web UI is fully functional with standard browsers, without any special
ALPN/SNI values or connection upgrades.
```
I don't think "Desktops" and "AWS Console" are self-evident Web UI features that readers will necessarily grasp, so I think we can remove these mentions.

### Apps

For both HTTP and TCP apps, `tsh proxy app` can launch a local proxy that
handles the connection upgrades and sets appropriate ALPN value for TLS
routing.

> `tsh` Cloud CLI commands like `tsh aws` transparently starts a local proxy that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tsh` CLI commands for accessing Cloud APIs, e.g., `tsh aws`, transparently start a local proxy that
```

performs connection upgrades for TLS routing. To start local proxies for native

> applications, one may use commands such as "tsh proxy aws" and similar ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applications, you can use commands such as "tsh proxy aws" and similar ones.
```
